Welcome in this lecture we are going to be making our final session much more interesting by actually
finding some sessions so here I am in a standalone game I'm going to go and host on this game and I'm
going to go in to the unreel editor and I am going to hit play and you can see a long message here saying
that it's starting to find sessions.
And there we go.
We have found a session with a long U you I.D. that you I.D. is of this game here.
In fact I'll prove it to you by quitting the game entirely.
It's totally quit the game.
And if I go and stop and play in the editor then we will see that fine sessions finding sessions and
it's finished fine sessions but no such game was found so it really was that game that we just hosted
that it was found and I'm going to show you how we do this.
By setting up some session settings as well as setting up query settings and iterating over the list
of query results that come back.
So let's dive in and see how it's done.
So last lecture was a bit of a cliff-hanger wasn't it.
We had this fine sessions and we had a call-back from fine sessions but we didn't actually find any
sessions.
We didn't print out the results of said fine session.
So in this lecture we are going to be doing just that.
But the first thing we need to do.
Because I don't want to be leading you down a dark dark dark blind alley here is we need to adjust our
sessions settings and our querying settings that start with the session settings.
So when we go ahead and create our session that we in our create session method we actually have as
Session settings which we have just left as default for now.
Now this default settings aren't going to be enough.
Unfortunately we're going to have to set them up so you can find the documentation online for yourself
for EFF online sessions settings.
I am just going to do it using the autocomplete and my own knowledge of it.
SESSIONS I think is a struct so we can just use the dot operator and there's lots of things in here.
Lots and lots of things in fact.
But let's have a look at some of the important ones.
The first one is is LAN match.
We're going to have to set that to rule because we are going to be searching for things over the local
network even if it's on the same computer.
The second thing that we want in our session settings is going to be the number of layers.
So there's a few a couple of settings for this that as the number of private connections a number of
public connections.
We want the number of public connections and I'm going to set that to just a number greater than one
basically and then we have the session settings.
One more thing we are going to be setting up here all of these unfortunately are necessary and the other
one is should advertise.
That is basically going to make it visible to our find sessions without should advertise you're probably
gonna need to send out a personalized invite to your friends so should into advertise allows us to circumvent
that.
So that has set up and configured some session settings right.
Let's have a look at query parameters when we're doing our find sessions call.
We are passing in a session search object and that session search object could actually have some settings
in it.
There aren't very many settings that you can have here.
Well they are but they aren't.
They're basically named parameters.
Let me show you one little bit easier.
Again you can look at the documentation for f online session search for this one.
The one that we're going to once set is B is LAN query.
We're going to once set that to true.
So I'm using an arrow here because we've got a pointer but there is one more thing one more session
setting that we could want to use.
We're not going to be using it just yet but when it gets the steam we will be using it.
And that is that the query settings object itself which if you do a dot on you can see there is a get
and set operators.
And what do they take.
What does set Take for example.
Well set takes an F name which is going to be the key and a value type which is going to be the value.
So the idea here is that the query settings aren't defined by the API of f online session search but
rather by the AP.
I of whatever you're using for example if it's steam or other things then there are going to be different
parameters that you can send in there at the moment.
Just the fact that it's LAN query is going to be enough.
And now let's have a look at down at our age to do our on a session on find sessions complete.
We have access in here to our session search object and what can we do with this.
How can we get hold of the results that we want.
Well let's go into the documentation for online sessions search.
You can see that here there is an object called search results which happens to be a t array of F on
line that session search result type.
Now for those of you who need a refresher on array I include the documentation here which talks about
all sorts of operations that you can do with teh array including a section on loops.
So let's see or iterating.
I'm not sure what the terminology they're going to use here.
Yeah iteration.
So in here you can see various methods you could use use whichever one you feel comfortable using.
And I'm going to put this up to a challenge for you to iterate over this t array.
You're going to these sessions that have been found you found sections are in the session search as
I've just showed you use the t array docs for iterating and what happens if you use default settings.
What happens if you remove the settings I've just told you to add in.
What are you going to get.
Make sure you're logging out in the case where you get zero search results as well and make sure you
test it out with a separate game instance are you going to launch a game.
It's going to have to host and then you're going to have a look at what sessions are printed out in
the editor.
Pause a video and have a go.
Okay welcome back.
Let's dive in with this.
So first things first I am going to check for validity.
So we're going to do a session search is valid but we also want to check whether it's successful so
I'm going to roll that into one if statement is going to say if success.
And double ampersand session search.
Is valid.
And then we can go ahead and we can do what we want to do.
We can say let me fix my indentation which has gone a bit awry then we can say that we finished fine
session and I am going to do a full loop over its results so we're going to do the session search arrow
and then we said it's the search results that we're looking for it's a T array iterating over it couldn't
be easier.
And I'm going to actually use auto to deduce what type we've got here.
So I'm going to do auto ampersand to make sure that it's a reference to whatever we get so that we're
not copying things basically.
And this is going to be a search result.
And then we use the colon to use the for loop iteration style for loop range based for loop.
For those of you who know a bit about C++ this called arranged for loop and then we've got this search
result typed back if I hover over it let's see what that actually is.
That is an F online session the search results so let me just swap that out for that f online session
search.
Result.
You could have seen it from the type of the tea array in search results.
I'm going to take a reference to it.
As I said because I don't want to copy it and I'm putting it in front of it.
Now that's just to be explicit.
It's perfectly legitimate just to use the auto keyword.
If that's what you prefer to do.
So we're going to have this search result in here let's see what our search result provides search results.
Dot because it's a reference on a pointer weakness a dot and there's a couple of things in here.
We can have the session.
We could have the ping in milliseconds to said session.
We can see whether it is valid.
And we can see the session I.D. So I'm going to go with that getting that session I.D. string and printing
it out so let's get our log message get any log message really and then we are going to say this found
session named and we are going to include the P.C. s to format some string of string that we're going
to have to put a star in front of to get the internal representation.
And it's going to be Search Result DOT gets session I.D. string like so that's going to return an F
string for us which will represent the session.
So let's go over in to one real in fact let's build first or his better build before you try and test
things out.
Okay that has successfully completed.
And let's go and try it out.
Like I said we're going to have to launch up a hosting session of the game so I'm going to go to my
new project right click on it and launch game.
And then when we launch the game and hosted the game we can go into the editor and see if the log messages
are being printed whether we are getting any sessions or whether we're getting zero sessions.
So let's try this out.
Here comes the game.
Doo doo doo doo.
That's a hit host game is being hosted.
Let's go over into the unreel.
Ed let's hit play and see it's starting fine session start starting session still finding sessions and
it has found the session and it's given us a session name that is hunky dory That's fantastic.
Now I'm not going to go ahead and test this.
Actually I am going to test this.
I'm going to go ahead and remove one of the things that I told you to add which is actually the query
parameter.
This one saying me is LAN query.
If we go ahead and remove this and if you had tried removing some of the settings yourself you might
have seen that if you removed all the settings they would have you would have got zero sessions come
back but if you removed just that query setting then you are going to be just fine because it's going
to look for both LAN matches and non LAN matches.
So that's going to be okay.
But in this case you do need to say that the session is a land that you do need to say that it has public
connections to and you do need to say that it advertised.
If you dont do any of those things you are going to get zero.
SESSIONS found at the end.
So let's go ahead with built.
Let's go ahead and launch up a new project launch game and we are going to go back in to editor and
stop the currently playing game because we want to add new code who doesn't not reload so it's going
to be using the new code.
When we launched up the game here's our lovely menu Let's go ahead and host.
Here I am hosting Let's go over into the editor Let's hit play.
Starting to find sessions.
Let's see what happens as we find sessions like Sessions Band sessions.
It did manage to find a session and you can take my word for it or you can.
Well you shouldn't take my word for it you should definitely try it.
You should try removing the settings and see that you don't actually find any sessions as a result.
So congratulations we've actually managed to print out some sessions.
We've found sessions managed to print them out.
Next is going to be joining.
But before we get to joining sessions we want to have a bit of a nice interface here because obviously
what we've got so far is just a little bit of text telling us that it found the session.
We want to be able to get hit join get a server browser click on a server and hit join there.
So that is what we're going to be tackling next.